ME599 Project Proposal
John Kittelman

For this term I propose a simulation tool which will be designed for use by the
Global Formula Racing team.  This simulation tool will be a thermodynamic model
of the current engine configuration which is a stock KTM 450 SXF.  This tool
will have inputs of fuel type, fuel flow, air flow, cylinder geometry, intake
and exhaust pressure, spark ignition and fuel injection timing, and engine
speed.  The simulation should be a tool to optimize power and fuel efficiency.
The limiting factor for these inputs is the air flow due to a rule require flow
regulator.  This single the engine simulation will also include possible engine
modifications that have been discussed by team.  These modifications are but not
limited to, a turbo, changing piston heads and changing fuel type.

The justification behind this code for GFR is based on the points gained in
competition.  The competition which GFR competes in hold a design review where
students must defend their design choses.  The simulation will add a quick and
easy tool to justify design decisions in competition and in future years for the 
team. The current method for justify any decision within the power-train is to run
tests on the dynamometer (dyno) in the basement of Rogers.  This is slow and is 
a cost to the team in gas and engine wear.   A simulation that is validated by dyno 
testing data will be an important step in expediting thepower-train design process 
for GFR.

I am hoping to develop a tool like a LabVIEW where different modules can be
chained together to form a complete system.  This would allow for future users
of the software to have an easier time using/modifying the code for their needs.
I will use Python's Class feature where I can initialize lets say the
intake manifold with the required inputs and then run through the thermodynamic
calculation. I expect that Numpy and Scipy and Matplotlib will be required to do 
the simulation and represent the results.

The theory which I will be basing my thermodynamic model will come mostly from
Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals by John Heywood.  Engine Modeling and
Control: Modeling and Electronic Management of Internal Combustion Engines by
Rolf Isermann will be used to develop the module setup to the simulation.
The Isermann will help develop the structure of the simulation and the Heywood
book will be used to make the computation of the each module.

If time permits I would like to add a feature that would compare simulation
results with the test data using the same input values.  This would allow for
correction factors to be created and implemented into the code.  The current
benchmark for any simulation ever used by GFR had an accuracy of plus/minus
30%; however currently there is no simulation for the KTM 450.  I would like
to shoot for an accuracy of within 10% of test values.
